# The Silou Forest

Deep within [The Eastern Woodlands](./eastern-woodlands.md) lies a forest distinct in its age and strangeness. The trees here are older than anywhere else in the world, having lived through ages that have now been lost to the memory of the other mortal races. The trees remember. It is said that this place is the home of spirits, or demons, or ghosts — depends on who's telling the story. Whatever the case, The Silou Forest is known to all who have heard of it as a place of strange happenings and dangerous magics.

## Known History

=== "Player Knowledge"

    Known by a few different names, The Heartwood Forest to the locals, Fools Treasure by those who trade in lumber, Most recently Silou Forest by [The High Sceptre](../groups/the-high-sceptre.md), and simply The Forest by the spirits who venture far enough to speak to mortals within The Eastern Woodlands at large. The Silou Forest is said to have existed before the dawn of our current era of history. While actual samples of the wood from the forest are near impossible to obtain, stories of its presence go back as far as anyone can remember.

    The oldest story told about this forest tells of it by the name of [The Heartwood Forest](../asides/the-heartwood-forest.md). By this story's telling, these woods are the source of all knowledge and magic craft. The druids that reside within The Eastern Woodlands tend to these forests with care, for their tradition is largely based on the belief that this forest stands as the source of not only their magic, but the origin of their societies history itself.

    The surrounding forest measures to be at most twelve hundred years old which aligns with the start of our current era of known history. Much of it is substantially younger due to foresting. Due to the expeditious and greedy nature of one particular exploratory party from [The High Sceptre](../groups/the-high-sceptre.md) circa year 900, a small core sample was acquired and examined by The High Sceptre's court. If their findings are to be believed, the tree they sampled was well over 7,000 years old. This would make The Silou Forest, as the Sceptre has taken to calling it, the oldest living set of organisms in the known world.

=== "DM Knowledge"

    For as long as stories have been told, the name Silou has been spoken. At the heart of this forest the roots of the [Silou Tree](../entities/silou-tree.md) bury themselves deep within the ground. Planted before [The First Daybreak](../events/daybreaks.md#first-daybreak) by [The Grovetender](../entites/the-grovetender.md) to soak in the knowledge of every living thing upon the surface of this world. As time passed the Silou tree spread and multiplied and so was born The Silou Forest.

    As the neighboring mundane forests became more populated and spirits began to be drawn to these lands, The Silou Forest became a natural magnet and home for spirits that were not otherwise tied to location or person. Being a gift of The Grovetender, the Silou tree and its siblings are fundamentally a part of the spirit themselves. Though planted here within the mortal realm, these trees retain their connection to their extra-planar origin. Through this connection, they provide a suitable home for spirits that reside within the mortal realm, who in turn protect the forest and spread its name to the stories of the mortals and spirit alike.

    During [Nocturne No.1](../events/nocturnes.md#nocturn-no1) this symbiotic relationship was put to its first true test. With the falling of the first star, the mundane forests surrounding The Silou were close to dying off. The Silou Forest itself was shrinking, and while the spirit nature of the trees would allow them to sustain themselves, their ability to support their new guests spiritual needs was greatly reduced. The [Silou Tree](../entities/silou-tree.md) chose this moment to exert its will upon the world. It took time, but a seed once planted will always grow. A new story was born, that of [The Heartwood Forest](../asides/the-heartwood-forest.md). Planted as a simple thought that bloomed into a belief that aged into a tradition, the story of the Heartwood Forest led the druids of the nearby settlements to redirect their efforts over time to sustaining the life of the Silou Forest, and in turn the spirits who had protected it.

    As the beginning of our current era of known history dawns with [The Second Daybreak](../events/daybreaks.md#second-daybreak), The Silou Forest is already born into the historical knowledge of the land by several names, and is both guarded and prized, as well as it is avoided and feared. For where there are spirits, there is often trickery, and mortals must tread carefully to stay safe.
